Refactor coinjoin.md (#1266)
zkSNACKs/WasabiDoc: docs/using-wasabi/CoinJoin.md

They collaboratively build a transaction where each of them provides some coins as inputs, and fresh addresses as outputs.
The concept has been around since the early days of Bitcoin, and it was formalized by the great Greg Maxwell in [this awesome introductory thread](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=279249.msg2983902).

The goal is to gain privacy by breaking the link of which input "pays" which output so that none of the outputs can be attributed to the owner of the input.
WabiSabi enables centrally coordinated coinjoins with variable amounts in a trustless (meaning nobody can steal) and private (meaning even the coordinator cannot spy) manner, as described in [WabiSabi paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/206).

[[toc]]

---

## Coinjoin step-by-step

1. Launch Wasabi and open your wallet.
2. Wait.
3. You're done! Wasabi coinjoins automatically in the background. You can make private payments now.

### More details

At first wallet load, you can choose one of the coinjoin strategy profiles:
![Coinjoin Strategy](CoinjoinStrategy.png)

> By default, Wasabi starts automatically coinjoining the funds, or you can toggle to manual coinjoin start in the settings.

Reviewer: IMHO this is not improvement. Please check my suggestion below.

> If you want to coinjoin right now, then click the play button; if you want to stop coinjoin, then click the pause button.

Reviewer 2: @BTCparadigm  In Max's sentence he talks about toggling (disabling) the `Automatically start coinjoin` and not the limit.
I would edit your first sentence as follow:

```
By default, Wasabi starts automatically coinjoining received funds when the total value of the non-private coins is equal to or above the `Auto-start coinjoin threshold` (0.01 BTC by default).
`Automatically start coinjoin` can be disabled from the coinjoin settings.
```

> Autocoinjoin starts whenever there's more than 0.01 BTC non private in your wallet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Coinjoin starts automatically whenever the amount of non-private funds is above the `Auto-start coinjoin threshold` (0.01 BTC by default).
```

Wallets with less than or equal to 0.01 BTC are in _PlebStop_ mode, where funds are not coinjoined automatically, you must press play manually to coinjoin.
User can change the limit from the settings or turn coinjoin on manually by pressing the play button of the music box in the main view.

> 

Reviewer 2: Removed.

Notice that it is not yet possible to coinjoin from a hardware wallet, the keys must be "hot" on your computer.

> Once a coin achieves enough privacy, the corresponding amount will show up in the software's main view as "private coins".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once a coin achieves enough privacy, the corresponding amount will show up in the software's main view as "PRIVATE".
```

So if you send a payment and receive a change output, Wasabi will automatically remix it without you having to pay coordinator fees again. 
The recipient of the payment will not have to pay coordinator fee, as long he is making coinjoins with the same coordinator.

## WabiSabi protocol step-by-step

WabiSabi protocol requires 5 steps to successfully create and broadcast a coinjoin transaction to the bitcoin network.

### Input registration

During the [input registration](/FAQ/FAQ-UseWasabi.md#what-is-happening-in-the-input-registration-phase), the client selects how many and which coins will be registered for coinjoin.
These coins need to be confirmed on the Bitcoin blockchain.
In the background Wasabi generates input proofs, a signatures over a challenge message with the private key that locks up the coins.
With this, the coordinator can verify that you actually own these coins.

Wasabi wallet generates a new [Tor identity](https://tb-manual.torproject.org/managing-identities/) called **Alice** for each input.
She is a separate entity, and for every round you use a new Alice who is not linked to any other input or previous connection.

> With Alice, you send the input and input ownership proof to the coordinator.

Reviewer 2: What about this one?

> With Alice, you send the input and input ownership proof to the coordinator.

Reviewer: ![images (14)](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51679301/198902967-a9557107-0b18-4777-ab50-dea2af198f1d.jpg)

The Wasabi coordinator now verifies that:

* There is still room for more peers on this CoinJoin.
* The input has not been registered before, is not banned, is unspent, and that the input proof is valid.
* The input has more than 5000 sats value.
 

> Only when all these checks are valid does the coordinator allow the input.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Only when all these checks are valid, does the coordinator allow this input to be registered.
```

Reviewer: Agreed with Marnix's additional clarification but I want to bring up another nitpick.
The checks are valid. Its about if the input passes the checks so I'd say:

```suggestion
Only when all these checks are passed does the coordinator allow the input to be registered.
```

The coordinator creates and sends a credential back to Alice, which has the same amount as the input minus fees.

The input registration phase ends when either: the number of registered inputs reaches the maximum, or when the time elapsed and the minimum number of inputs is registered.

### Connection confirmation

There are many Alices (different users) registering their input in the first phase, and this takes a while.
The connection confirmation phase makes sure that all of them are still online and ready to continue.

> The coordinator verifies the unique ID from all the Alices, and when everyone is still communicating.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The coordinator verifies the unique ID from all the Alices, and if everyone is still communicating.
```

Smaller ones don't pay coordinator fee at all, according to the _PlebsDontPay_ threshold.

The round starts either as soon as the number of registered inputs reaches the maximum, or after the input registration time is reached and as long as the minimum number of inputs is satisfied.
Just leave Wasabi running in the background of your computer, as coinjoining takes time.

Remixing is free, as well as coinjoining coins 1 hop from coinjoin, although, Bitcoin network fees still do apply.
So if you send a payment and receive a change output, Wasabi will not charge you the coordinator fee for this change output again.
The recipient of the payment will not have to pay the coordinator fee, as long he is making coinjoins with the same coordinator.

## WabiSabi protocol step-by-step

WabiSabi protocol requires 5 steps to successfully create and broadcast a coinjoin transaction to the bitcoin network.

### Input registration

During the [input registration](/FAQ/FAQ-UseWasabi.md#what-is-happening-in-the-input-registration-phase), the client selects how many and which coins will be registered for coinjoin.
These coins need to be confirmed on the Bitcoin blockchain.

> In the background Wasabi generates input proofs, which is a signature over a challenge message with the private key that locks up the coin.

Reviewer: The original sentence sounded weird but I'm not sure if this is any better.
```suggestion
In the background Wasabi generates input proofs, which are signatures over challenge messages, made with the private keys that locks up the coins.
```

The connection confirmation phase ends when all Alices have provided their unique IDs, or after a timeout and the number of online Alices is still larger than the minimum number of inputs.

### Output registration

Now that all peers are online, we are ready to proceed with the [output registration phase](/FAQ/FAQ-UseWasabi.md#what-is-happening-in-the-output-registration-phase) of the round.

First, every client needs to change the value of their credentials to the desired output values.
For this, the client presents to the coordinator two old credentials, and two newly created ones.
The coordinator does not know the amount value of any of those credentials, but it can verify, that the two pairs sum up to exactly the same value.
For example, a user can present one 5 btc and one 0 btc credential, and redeem one 2 btc and one 3 btc credential.
Or a user can present one 4 btc and one 1 btc credential, and redeem one 5 btc and one 0 btc credential.
After potentially many rounds of reissuance, each client has exactly the amount credential it desires.
Each of these reissuance is perfectly private, so the coordinator cannot link any of them to the same user.

> Next, your Wasabi client generates a completely new Tor identity **Bob**, who is in no way tied to any Alice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, your Wasabi client generates multiple new Tor identities called **Bob**, which are in no way tied to any Alice.
```

[[toc]]

---

## Coinjoin step-by-step

1. Launch Wasabi and open your wallet.
2. Wait.
3. You're done! Wasabi coinjoins automatically in the background. You can make private payments now.

### More details

At first wallet load, you can choose one of the coinjoin strategy profiles:

![Coinjoin Strategy](CoinjoinStrategy.png)

By default, Wasabi starts automatically coinjoining received funds when the total value of the non-private coins is equal to or above the `Auto-start coinjoin threshold` (0.01 BTC by default).
`Automatically start coinjoin` can be disabled from the coinjoin settings.
In case you want to start the process manually, then click the play button; if you want to stop coinjoin, then click the pause button.

Notice that it is not yet possible to coinjoin from a hardware wallet, the keys must be "hot" on your computer.

Once a coin achieves enough privacy, the corresponding amount will show up in the software's main view as "PRIVATE".

### Fees

A 0.3 % coordinator fee will be taken from fresh coins bigger than 0.01 BTC.
Smaller ones don't pay coordinator fee at all, according to the _PlebsDontPay_ threshold.

> The round starts either as soon as enough inputs have been registered, or after the input registration time is reached and as long as the minimum number of inputs is satisfied.

Reviewer 2: `as soon as enough inputs have been registered` do you mean `as soon as the number of registered inputs reaches the maximum`?

> The round starts either as soon as enough inputs have been registered, or after the input registration time is reached and as long as the minimum number of inputs is satisfied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The round starts either as soon as the number of registered inputs reaches the maximum, or after the input registration time is reached and as long as the minimum number of inputs is satisfied.
```

Just leave Wasabi running in the background of your computer, as coinjoining takes time.

Remixing is free, as well as coinjoining coins 1 hop from coinjoin, although, Bitcoin network fees still do apply.
So if you send a payment and receive a change output, Wasabi will not charge you the coordinator fee for this change output again.
The recipient of the payment will not have to pay the coordinator fee, as long he is making coinjoins with the same coordinator.

## WabiSabi protocol step-by-step

WabiSabi protocol requires 5 steps to successfully create and broadcast a coinjoin transaction to the bitcoin network.

### Input registration

During the [input registration](/FAQ/FAQ-UseWasabi.md#what-is-happening-in-the-input-registration-phase), the client selects how many and which coins will be registered for coinjoin.
These coins need to be confirmed on the Bitcoin blockchain.

> In the background Wasabi generates input proofs, a signatures over a challenge message with the private key that locks up the coins.

Author: ```suggestion
In the background Wasabi generates input proofs, which is a signature over a challenge message with the private key that locks up the coin.
```

With this, the coordinator can verify that you actually own these coins.

Wasabi wallet generates a new [Tor identity](https://tb-manual.torproject.org/managing-identities/) called **Alice** for each input.
She is a separate entity, and for every round you use a new Alice who is not linked to any other input or previous connection.
With Alice, you send the input and input ownership proof to the coordinator.

The Wasabi coordinator now verifies that:

* There is still room for more peers on this coinjoin.

> * The input has not been registered before, is not banned, is unspent, and that the input proof is valid.

Author: Registered already in the same round.

> * The input has not been registered before, is not banned, is unspent, and that the input proof is valid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The input has not already been registered, is not banned, is unspent, and that the input proof is valid.
```

> * The input has more than 5000 sats value.

Reviewer: What would you break it in to?

> * The input has more than 5000 sats value.

Author: ```suggestion
* The input has at least 5000 sats value.
```

 
Only when all these checks are valid does the coordinator allow the input.
The coordinator creates and sends a credential back to Alice, which has the same amount as the input minus fees.

The input registration phase ends when either: the number of registered inputs reaches the maximum, or when the time elapsed and the minimum number of inputs is satisfied.

### Connection confirmation

There are many Alices (different users) registering their input in the first phase, and this takes a while.
The connection confirmation phase makes sure that all of them are still online and ready to continue.

> The coordinator verifies the unique ID from all the Alices, and if everyone is still communicating.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The coordinator verifies the unique ID from each Alice, and if everyone is still communicating.
```

The coordinator sends a zero value credential to each Alice for each successful connection confirmation.

The round is abandoned and re-started if too many Alices have dropped, for example when their Wasabi is shut down, or when their Tor connection is temporarily broken.
The connection confirmation phase ends when all Alices have provided their unique ID, or after a timeout when the number of online Alices is still larger than the required number of peers.

### Output registration

Now that all peers are online, we are ready to proceed with the [output registration phase](/FAQ/FAQ-UseWasabi.md#what-is-happening-in-the-output-registration-phase) of the round.

> First, every client needs to change the value of their credential, to the desired output value.

Reviewer 2: Are we talking about every Alice here or every client?

Author: Clients.

> First, every client needs to change the value of their credential, to the desired output value.

Author: ```suggestion
First, every client needs to change the value of their credentials to the desired output values.
```

For this, the client presents to the coordinator two old credentials, and two newly created ones.
The coordinator does not know the amount value of any of those credentials, but he can verify, that the two pairs sum up to exactly the same value.
For example, a user can present one 5 btc and one 0 btc credential, and redeem one 2 btc and one 3 btc credential.
Or a user can present one 4 btc and one 1 btc credential, and redeem one 5 btc and one 0 btc credential.

> After potentially many rounds of reissuance, each client has exactly the amount credential he desires.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After potentially many rounds of reissuance, each client has exactly the amount credential it desires.
```

Each of these reissuance is perfectly private, so the coordinator cannot link any of them to the same user.

> Next, your Wasabi client generates a completely new Tor identity **Bob**, who is in no way tied to Alice.

Reviewer 2: I am lost here, what is this new Tor identity **Bob** needed for?

I guess we should say:

```suggestion
Next, your Wasabi client generates a completely new Tor identity **Bob** corresponding to each Alice, but who is in no way tied to any Alice.
```

Author: Output registration must not be tied to input registration

> Next, your Wasabi client generates a completely new Tor identity **Bob**, who is in no way tied to Alice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, for each Alice your Wasabi client generates a completely new Tor identity **Bob**, but who is in no way tied to any Alice.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, your Wasabi client generates a completely new Tor identity **Bob**, who is in no way tied to any Alice.
```

Bob sends to the Wasabi coordinator:

* An unblinded credential signed by the coordinator
* A new unused bitcoin address

> Because the coordinator can verify his own credential, he knows that this credential came into existence after an input of at least this much value was registerd.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the coordinator can verify its own credential, it knows that this credential came into existence after an input of at least this much value was registered.
```

> However, he cannot know which input exactly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, it cannot know which input exactly.
```

It is very important that the coordinator cannot link Alice to Bob.
Because Alice has sent the cleartext input, and Bob sends the cleartext output.
So, if the two were to be linked, then the coordinator can specifically link the input to the output, meaning that the anonymity set is 1.

> Because Alice received a credential from the coordinator, and because Bob is a new Tor identity not linked to Alice, the coordinator can verify that nobody is cheating, but he cannot deanonymize the peers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because Alice received a credential from the coordinator, and because Bob is a new Tor identity not linked to Alice, the coordinator can verify that nobody is cheating, but it cannot deanonymize the peers.
```

The output registration phase ends when the value of cleartext outputs plus change outputs is equal to the value of inputs, meaning all Bobs have registered.

> If after a timeout not all outputs are registered, then this round is abandoned, the missing peers are temporarily banned, and a new round is started.

Reviewer 2: Should we say `the missing inputs are temporarily banned` or not?

> The output registration phase ends when the value of cleartext outputs is equal to the value of inputs, meaning that all Bobs have registered.

Reviewer 2: I personally don't understand what does `cleartext outputs` mean.

Author: The output address, not "blinded"

> If after a timeout not all outputs are registered, then this round is abandoned, the missing peers are temporarily banned, and a new round is started.

Author: ```suggestion
If after a timeout not all outputs are registered, then this round is abandoned, the missing inputs are temporarily banned, and a new round is started.
```

> If after a timeout not all outputs are registered, then this round is abandoned, the missing peers are temporarily banned, and a new round is started.

Author: ```suggestion
If after a timeout not all outputs are registered, then this round is abandoned, the missing inputs are temporarily banned, and a new round is started.
```

### Signing

Now that all inputs and outputs are registered, the coordinator can start the [signing phase](/FAQ/FAQ-UseWasabi.md#what-is-happening-in-the-signing-phase), by building the coinjoin transaction with all the registered inputs and outputs.

> It sends this transaction to all the Alices of the round.

Reviewer 2: This is confusing, talking about the client signing the transaction and then Alice sending the signature.
This is how it should be AFAICU:

```
It sends this transaction to all the Alices of the round.
Each Alice does the following:
* Verifies that her input and output are included.
* Signs the transaction with the private key of her input.
* Sends the signature to the coordinator, who verifies this information.
```

Reviewer: Fixed

The goal is to gain privacy by breaking the link of which input "pays" which output so that none of the outputs can be attributed to the owner of the input.
WabiSabi enables centrally coordinated coinjoins with variable amounts in a trustless (meaning nobody can steal) and private (meaning even the coordinator cannot spy) manner, as described in the [WabiSabi paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/206).

[[toc]]

---

## Coinjoin step-by-step

1. Launch Wasabi and open your wallet.
2. Wait.
3. You're done! Wasabi coinjoins automatically in the background. You can make private payments now.

### More details

At first wallet load, you can choose one of the coinjoin strategy profiles:

![Coinjoin Strategy](CoinjoinStrategy.png)

By default, Wasabi starts automatically coinjoining received funds when the total value of the non-private coins is equal to or above the `Auto-start coinjoin threshold` (0.01 BTC by default).
`Automatically start coinjoin` can be disabled from the coinjoin settings.
In case you want to start the process manually, then click the play button; if you want to stop coinjoin, then click the pause button.

> Coinjoin starts automatically whenever the amount of non-private funds is equal to or above the `Auto-start coinjoin threshold` (0.01 BTC by default).
> Wallets with less than the `Auto-start coinjoin threshold` are in _PlebStop_ mode, where funds are not coinjoined automatically, you must press play manually to coinjoin.
> The user can change the threshold from the settings or start coinjoin manually by pressing the play button of the music box in the main view.
> 

Reviewer 2: As pointed out here https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WasabiDoc/pull/1266#discussion_r990529452

```suggestion
```

Now that all inputs and outputs are registered, the Wasabi coordinator can start the [signing phase](/FAQ/FAQ-UseWasabi.md#what-is-happening-in-the-signing-phase) by building the CoinJoin transaction with all the registered inputs, the anonset outputs, the change outputs and the coordinator fee output.
He sends this transaction to all the Alices of this round.
Each user verifies that:

* All inputs are included
* All outputs are included

She then signs the transaction with the private keys of her inputs.
Alice sends the signature to the coordinator, who then verifies this information.

The signing phase ends when the coordinator has received all the valid signatures for all the registered inputs.

### Broadcasting

The CoinJoin transaction has been successfully built and signed, and it is now ready to be [broadcasted](/FAQ/FAQ-UseWasabi.md#what-is-happening-in-the-broadcasting-phase) to the peers of the Bitcoin network.
The coordinator sends this transaction over the Tor network to random Bitcoin P2P nodes, and from there it is gossiped to other nodes and miners.

> Wasabi saves on mining fees by setting a confirmation target of roughly 24 hours.

Reviewer: Is it the clients who decides it? If not, how about:
```suggestion
To save on mining fees, the target confirmation time is roughly 24 hours.
```

Reviewer 2: AFAIK it is not the client that decides.

> ## Wasabi CoinJoin examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Wasabi coinjoin examples
```
